README.md, before:

gdmc: Gradle Dependency Management Center
=========================================
An attempt to add some sanity to maven dependencies across multiple gradle projects

## Why
TODO

## Usage
Add gdmc to your buildscript dependencies...
```groovy
buildscript {
  repositories {
    jcenter()
  }
  dependencies {
    classpath 'com.episode6.hackit.gdmc:gdmc:0.0.9.8-SNAPSHOT'
  }
}
```

In your project's build.gradle, apply the gdmc plugin and define your dependencies without versions
```groovy
apply plugin: 'java'
apply plugin: 'com.episode6.hackit.gdmc'

dependencies {

  // Leave versions out of your dependency declarations
  compile 'net.sourceforge.findbugs:jsr305'
  compile 'com.episode6.hackit.chop:chop-core'

  // you can also use the map format without a version
  testCompile group: 'junit', name: 'junit'
}
```

Execute the `gdmcResolve` task, and a `gdmc.json` file will be automatically generated for you.
```json
{
    "com.episode6.hackit.chop:chop-core": {
        "groupId": "com.episode6.hackit.chop",
        "artifactId": "chop-core",
        "version": "0.1.8"
    },
    "junit:junit": {
        "groupId": "junit",
        "artifactId": "junit",
        "version": "4.12"
    },
    "net.sourceforge.findbugs:jsr305": {
        "groupId": "net.sourceforge.findbugs",
        "artifactId": "jsr305",
        "version": "1.3.7"
    }
}
```
(this file should be added to your project's source control)

If you're adding gdmc to an existing project with many dependencies, you can can execute the `gdmcImport` task before removing the versions from your build.gradle. This will import the fully-qualified dependencies from your project into the `gdmc.json` file instead of resolving their latest versions.


## gdmc file
gdmc will look for it's json file in the following locations in the following order
- If the property `gdmc.file` contains a valid file path, it will be used.
- `$rootDir/gdmc.json` will be used if it exists
- `$rootDir/gdmc/gdmc.json` will be used if it exists.

If no valid gdmc file is found, `$rootDir/gdmc.json` will be used.

## gdmc tasks
gdmc provides the following tasks to handle resolving, importing and upgrading dependencies.
- `gdmcResolve`: Find any unmapped dependencies in the project (i.e. version not defined in gradle, and key not mapped in gdmc), resolve the latest release version of said dependencies, and add them to gdmc.json
 - Note: some plugins cause dependencies to be resolved before this task gets a chance to execute (android gradle build tools is a known example). If you see an unmapped dependency error when executing this task, simply override the `gdmc.forceResolve` gradle property by running
 ```
 ./gradlew -Pgdmc.forceResolve=true gdmcResolve
 ```
- `gdmcImport`: Find fully-qualified dependencies in the project (i.e. versions are defined in-line in build.gradle) and add those explicit versions to gdmc.json
 - To overwrite existing entries in gdmc.json, override the `gdmc.overwrite` gradle property by running
 ```
 ./gradlew -Pgdmc.overwrite gdmcImport
 ```
- `gdmcImportTransitive`: Same as `gdmcImport` except it will also import all transitive dependencies to your gdmc.json
- `gdmcUpgrade`: Find all properly mapped gdmc dependencies in your project, and resolve the latest release versions of each of them. Then dump those new versions into gdmc.json, overwriting whatever was there.
- `gdmcUpgradeAll`: Upgrade all entries in your gdmc.json file, regardless of if they're defined in you project.
- `gdmcImportSelf`: Add/update an entry in gdmc.json for this project, using the `group`, `name`, and `version` defined in gradle.
- `gdmcValidateSelf`: A validation task that gets added as a dependant task to check and test. If the project's `version` does not include `SNAPSHOT`, ensures that current version referenced in gdmc.json
 - You should only need gdmc self validation if sharing a single gdmc file with multiple projects/repos. If you don't need this validation it can be disabled like so...
 ```groovy
 gdmcValidateSelf.required = {false}
 ```

## gdmc aliases
If you want to define groups of dependencies or even just shorten some dependency names, you can manually add aliases to the `gdmc.json` file.

- namespaced aliases contain a ':' (colon)

```json
    "e6:chop-core": {
        "alias": ["com.episode6.hackit.chop:chop-core"]
    },
    "e6:chop-android": {
        "alias": ["com.episode6.hackit.chop:chop-android"]
    }
```

- raw alias do not contain a ':' (colon)

```json
    "chop-all": {
        "alias": [
            "e6:chop-core",
            "e6:chop-android"
        ]
    }
```

- In your build.gradle, you can then reference the shorter aliases

```groovy
dependencies {
  // namespace aliases can be referenced directly
  compile 'e6:chop-core'

  // raw aliases must be wrapped by the gdmc method for gradle to handle them properly
  compile gdmc('chop-all')
}
```

## gdmc and spring's dependency management plugin
TODO


### License
MIT: https://github.com/episode6/gdmc/blob/master/LICENSE

Commit message:

Add Why and Goals to readme

README.md, after:

gdmc: Gradle Dependency Management Center
=========================================
An attempt to add some sanity to maven dependencies across multiple gradle projects

## Why
When building open source libraries, one of my goals is to keep them as small, simple and segregated as possible, while minimizing code-duplication (i.e. copy-pasta). However, after releasing only a few modules, I quickly became weary of managing similar or identical dependencies across these projects. For every new dependency, in every project, I'm forced to go lookup what version I'm supposed to be using, and manually add it to `build.gradle`.  If I ever decide to upgrade one of these dependencies (across the board), I must go find every project that uses it, manually update the referenced version, and test it. I'm sick of this.

## Goals
- Allow dependencies to be decalred in gradle without versions defined
 - If you've used [Spring's dependency management plugin](https://github.com/spring-gradle-plugins/dependency-management-plugin), this will sound familiar. The dependency management plugin & gdmc do share some functionality, but have different areas of focus (gdmc doesn't override transitive dependencies or handle mapped exclusions at this time). You can actually use gdmc along-side spring's dependency management plugin by applying the `com.episode6.hackit.gdmc-spring-compat` plugin instead of the normal gdmc plugin.
- Map dependency keys -> versions in a separate file, and make it possible for that file to be stored in a submodule, so that it may be shared by multiple projects.
 - Technically, the spring dependency management plugin can also accomplish this by defining your dependencyManagement{} block in a separate file, and applying that file to your project. This is a valid alternative if have no use for the requirements below.
 - The spring plugin also has a mechanism for 'releasing' mavenBoms (groups of dependencies) to public maven repos, but this adds an entire new release cycle just for managing versions and feels like too much process. In the case of our small, new and volitile libraries, the instant updates and branching capabilities of a submodule are more appealing.
- Automatically resolve missing dependencies via a gradle task so that you don't have to explicitly look up current versions (without a good reason).
 - Since we want to update the map programmatically, we decided to back it with a (pretty-printed) json file instead of a groovy file.
- Provide gradle tasks to 'upgrade' dependencies that are mapped via gdmc, to make it easier to stay on the latest stable releases or your dependencies
- Provide a mechanism to define aliases for dependencies with long or obnoxious groupIds, and for groups of dependencies that often get applied together.

## Usage
Add gdmc to your buildscript dependencies...
```groovy
buildscript {
  repositories {
    jcenter()
  }
  dependencies {
    classpath 'com.episode6.hackit.gdmc:gdmc:0.0.9.8-SNAPSHOT'
  }
}
```

In your project's build.gradle, apply the gdmc plugin and define your dependencies without versions
```groovy
apply plugin: 'java'
apply plugin: 'com.episode6.hackit.gdmc'

dependencies {

  // Leave versions out of your dependency declarations
  compile 'net.sourceforge.findbugs:jsr305'
  compile 'com.episode6.hackit.chop:chop-core'

  // you can also use the map format without a version
  testCompile group: 'junit', name: 'junit'
}
```

Execute the `gdmcResolve` task, and a `gdmc.json` file will be automatically generated for you.
```json
{
    "com.episode6.hackit.chop:chop-core": {
        "groupId": "com.episode6.hackit.chop",
        "artifactId": "chop-core",
        "version": "0.1.8"
    },
    "junit:junit": {
        "groupId": "junit",
        "artifactId": "junit",
        "version": "4.12"
    },
    "net.sourceforge.findbugs:jsr305": {
        "groupId": "net.sourceforge.findbugs",
        "artifactId": "jsr305",
        "version": "1.3.7"
    }
}
```
(this file should be added to your project's source control)

If you're adding gdmc to an existing project with many dependencies, you can can execute the `gdmcImport` task before removing the versions from your build.gradle. This will import the fully-qualified dependencies from your project into the `gdmc.json` file instead of resolving their latest versions.


## gdmc file
gdmc will look for it's json file in the following locations in the following order
- If the property `gdmc.file` contains a valid file path, it will be used.
- `$rootDir/gdmc.json` will be used if it exists
- `$rootDir/gdmc/gdmc.json` will be used if it exists.

If no valid gdmc file is found, `$rootDir/gdmc.json` will be used.

## gdmc tasks
gdmc provides the following tasks to handle resolving, importing and upgrading dependencies.
- `gdmcResolve`: Find any unmapped dependencies in the project (i.e. version not defined in gradle, and key not mapped in gdmc), resolve the latest release version of said dependencies, and add them to gdmc.json
 - Note: some plugins cause dependencies to be resolved before this task gets a chance to execute (android gradle build tools is a known example). If you see an unmapped dependency error when executing this task, simply override the `gdmc.forceResolve` gradle property by running
 ```
 ./gradlew -Pgdmc.forceResolve=true gdmcResolve
 ```
- `gdmcImport`: Find fully-qualified dependencies in the project (i.e. versions are defined in-line in build.gradle) and add those explicit versions to gdmc.json
 - To overwrite existing entries in gdmc.json, override the `gdmc.overwrite` gradle property by running
 ```
 ./gradlew -Pgdmc.overwrite gdmcImport
 ```
- `gdmcImportTransitive`: Same as `gdmcImport` except it will also import all transitive dependencies to your gdmc.json
- `gdmcUpgrade`: Find all properly mapped gdmc dependencies in your project, and resolve the latest release versions of each of them. Then dump those new versions into gdmc.json, overwriting whatever was there.
- `gdmcUpgradeAll`: Upgrade all entries in your gdmc.json file, regardless of if they're defined in you project.
- `gdmcImportSelf`: Add/update an entry in gdmc.json for this project, using the `group`, `name`, and `version` defined in gradle.
- `gdmcValidateSelf`: A validation task that gets added as a dependant task to check and test. If the project's `version` does not include `SNAPSHOT`, ensures that current version referenced in gdmc.json
 - You should only need gdmc self validation if sharing a single gdmc file with multiple projects/repos. If you don't need this validation it can be disabled like so...
 ```groovy
 gdmcValidateSelf.required = {false}
 ```

## gdmc aliases
If you want to define groups of dependencies or even just shorten some dependency names, you can manually add aliases to the `gdmc.json` file.

- namespaced aliases contain a ':' (colon)

```json
    "e6:chop-core": {
        "alias": ["com.episode6.hackit.chop:chop-core"]
    },
    "e6:chop-android": {
        "alias": ["com.episode6.hackit.chop:chop-android"]
    }
```

- raw alias do not contain a ':' (colon)

```json
    "chop-all": {
        "alias": [
            "e6:chop-core",
            "e6:chop-android"
        ]
    }
```

- In your build.gradle, you can then reference the shorter aliases

```groovy
dependencies {
  // namespace aliases can be referenced directly
  compile 'e6:chop-core'

  // raw aliases must be wrapped by the gdmc method for gradle to handle them properly
  compile gdmc('chop-all')
}
```

## gdmc and spring's dependency management plugin
TODO


### License
MIT: https://github.com/episode6/gdmc/blob/master/LICENSE
